SOP — programming sessions (all projects)

A session is one sitting with one specific goal. It is not the whole product and not "whatever comes up."

Start of session

State or agree:

1. Goal — one sentence.
2. Done when — what we will see on the real machine, UI, or log. Not "the code looks right."
3. Don't break — constraints that stay unless the goal changes them.

If we cannot fill Done when in one sentence, we are not ready to code.

FSD (only when meaning changes)

When a command, coordinate system, or user-visible behavior changes, write a half-page functional spec first: name, inputs, outputs, pass, fail, out of scope. A bug fix in existing behavior does not need an FSD.

While working

- Keep the change scoped to the goal.
- Do not claim done, fixed, or tested without evidence (build, flash, test, or log).
- Verify on the real target when the work is hardware, motion, or UI. A compile is not a motion test.
- Prefer one behavior per session. If we finish early, that is a new session with a new goal.

Naming

- No single-letter locals unless the declaration line has a comment saying what it is.
- Prefer a self-documenting name: float PulsesForPopoff; not float p;.
- Loop indexes may be axis, sample, row — not i unless commented.

Single-line if

One statement: keep it on one line, with a comment on that line when the reason is not obvious.

if (cond) action; /* comment */

Example: if (popOffDistance <= 0.0f) popOffDistance = 1.0f; /* M233 not set */

Use braces only when the body is more than one statement. Do not write a braced one-liner, and do not put a single action on the next line without braces.

Installers

Only a Microsoft Installer project may be used: a Visual Studio Setup Project (.vdproj) in the solution, producing a Windows Installer (.msi). Add that installer project to the solution and take Publish Items (or Primary Output) from the app project.

Do not use WiX, Inno Setup, NSIS, ClickOnce, MSIX, or any other installer stack.

End of session

- Build (and flash, if this repo flashes) before calling the sitting done.
- Push when the sitting is over, even if the next sitting is "improve it."
- Leave the next goal in one sentence if it is already known.

This file

Home rule: ~/.grok/rules/sop.md — Grok loads it for every project.
Copy in a repo: docs/SOP.txt — humans and git. Project addenda (boards, tools) go in that repo's SOP or AGENTS.md, not here.
